Hermes is probably the most powerful AI
agent that you could be running right
now. It works for you all day, it's got
its own memory, and it writes its own
skills the more that you use it. But up
until this week, just to set it up, you
had to go into the terminal, and if
you're not a technical person, you take
one look and you quit. Now, I've been
running Hermes for months now, and the
agent was never the hard part. Just
getting everything installed and getting
my actual setup to the way that I want
it to be was the hard part. So, I've
watched a ton of different people inside
of my community just give up before they
ever got to the good stuff. So, Nous
just dropped a
to solve for that where you can just
download it like any other application.
It does the whole setup for you, and a
couple minutes later, you're talking to
it like a window that looks like this.
There's no terminal needed to set this
up, no code, none of that. So, I'm going
to be showing you guys four different
things. Just what Hermes actually is and
why this application is such a big deal,
how the install just runs itself, how
simple it actually is, and a quick
walk-through the application, and then
we'll connect it to Telegram and get it
working for you. And look, if you can
install Slack or any other simple
application onto your computer, you can
do this, I promise. Let's get into it.
Now, really quick, before we install
anything at all, let me just explain
what this thing actually is because it's
exactly why this application matters so
much. So, this is the Hermes repo. It's
built by a research lab called Nous
Research. It's open source, and the star
count at the top, 183,000, is actually
pretty wild. So, for an open source
agent, that is pretty massive. It's up
there with Open Claw. And their tagline,
it pretty much sums it down No, tagline
down to the bottom, it pretty much sums
up what this is. The agent that grows
with you. Hermes is an in-chat bot that
you open in a tab and ask a question. It
runs quietly in the background on your
computer with its own memory, and every
time it does a task for you, it writes a
little note on how it actually pulled it
off. So, next time, it's going to be
faster, and it just gets better at being
yours over time. Now, the catch with
this, and it's the whole reason for this
video, all of that power, everything
that you're looking at here, up until
now, it lived behind the terminal. So,
the commands, the setup wizard, the
wiring things up by hand, and that's the
wall that stopped most people completely
cold and the biggest friction. So,
that's exactly what this desktop
application fixes. To go ahead and head
to this link either just pausing the
video or you can grab it from the link
down below in the description. And we're
just going to scroll down a little bit.
You can see we can download this for Mac
OS. It already detected that is the
computer that I am using. It's actually
one of the best looking website landing
pages I have ever seen. So, let's just
do that now. So, whenever you go
through, you download this on whatever
respective machine you are using, it'll
pull up once you actually open this up.
Hermes Agent, obviously you want to
click on install and it's going to
handle everything for us. So, it's
actually kind of magic. It's just
setting everything up. So, it's pulling
down the agent. It's building the little
environment that needs to run on your
machine and then just getting everything
ready to go. Basically, all the stuff
that you used to have to type in the
terminal by hand, it just does all of it
for you. So, some of the things,
downloading Hermes Agent, creating the
Python virtual environment, installing
the browser tool dependencies,
installing the Hermes command,
everything. A couple minutes later,
everything is now set up and it says
Hermes is ready and we can launch
Hermes. So, from here I'm just going to
continue the setup, make sure
everything's good to go. Start up Hermes
for us. Fantastic. So, once that is
finished running, another 5 seconds or
so, we will now have this interface.
Everything loaded. It is strikingly
similar to Codex or really any other IDE
out there where we have the sessions at
the top and then we have this
um navigation bar on the right-hand
section. We can see all of our folders
and everything that we can work inside
of. On the left-hand side, we can see
all of our sessions, some pinned things
that we wants to throw in there,
anything that may be important,
artifacts, messaging, skills and tools,
and starting a new session, of course.
Now, this app itself, it's completely
free and it's open source. You just need
a model, so the brain behind it. So, I
am going to be using ChatGPT for mine.
Nuke also has their own subscription
just with over about 300 different
models. So, if you want the easy
all-in-one way or you can just plug it
into Anthropic or whatever else you can
use that API or open router is going to
be great options. All of those work
completely fine. Also, news they do give
you a little bit of credits to try out,
but that's really just kicking the
tires. So, to really use it day-to-day,
you're going to be on a cheap plan or
just use your own key. Now, one thing
before moving on that I did want to show
off a little bit is the skills and
tools. So, out of the box, Hermes comes
loaded with a stack of different skills
and different tools, and I mean a lot of
them. So, mine's showing about 109
different skills right now. And all of
these are sorted into different
categories. We have Apple, autonomous AI
agents, creative, data science,
everything all the way up until social
media, note taking,
uh media, I mean, you name it. One thing
that most people miss is that if you see
how almost all of these are just
switched on by default. So, every skill
that is on, it is a little extra weight
that the agent actually carries around,
and that can quietly cost you tokens,
which is real money. So, I just go down
the list, and I should be switching off
the stuff that I'm never going to be
touching. let me go ahead and do that.
Now, right next to this skills tab is
going to be the tool sets. So, these are
the actual abilities all grouped up. So,
anything like file operations, so that
it can actually, you know, like read and
write files, vision, so it can just look
at images, and memory, and task
delegation, so it can spit up just
little helper agents to work in
parallel. So, it's the same thing. You
can flip them on and off, whichever ones
you do not need. Highly recommend first
thing to just switch off whatever you're
not going to be using because, again,
it'll make it a little bit more
expensive and just take a little bit
longer for you to be running any
outputs. And by the way, a few of them
do say that they need keys, which just
means that you would plug in a key to
switch that one on and off. And one more
thing that I love is this is also where
the skills that it writes for itself is
going to be showing up inside of this
section. So, the little playbooks it's
going to be saving as it learns how you
actually work moving forward. Next piece
is messaging, and this is the one that
kind of got me because this This where
you hook Hermes up to the chat
applications and you can talk to it from
anywhere. It is so extremely simple. I
cannot even fathom it. The list that
they actually have of everything in
here, it's actually pretty long and very
extensive. So, Discord, Telegram, Slack,
Mattermost. I haven't even heard of a
majority of these. They have Twilio,
email. So, I mean, we can text and email
any of our customers or any prospects.
Um a lot of these I haven't even heard
of. WeChat is a big popular one. Google
Chat, you name it. So, effectively,
wherever you currently talk right now,
you can drop your agent in there. So,
you can just pick one of these, gives
you a little setup guide right here. So,
we can go to literally any one of them.
We'll find any setup guide for each
respective channel, and be able to
follow that, be able to paste in our
tokens, whatever it may be, and connect.
We're going to be doing Telegram
specifically together in just a minute,
so you'll see exactly how it works. Next
up from there is going to be the
artifacts. Now, the artifacts, it's
effectively the home for everything that
comes out of your sessions. So, the
files that it builds, any images, or
anything that you have, it is going to
be saving. So, the files that it builds,
any images, anything that you have, it
save, it all collects it just right
here. So, you're not digging back
through an old chat trying to find, you
know, that one thing, whatever it may
be, once again. Now, below this, if we
go down to the bottom left-hand section,
you can see we have the status bar. So,
gateway, that's just going to be your
your messaging connection. We'll come
back to it. And then we have the agents
right next to that. Of course, we don't
have any live sub agents right here
right now. But this is just going to be
showing any helper agents running right
now. And then if we close out of this,
we then have the cron. So, this is just
the handy one where anytime you set up a
job to run on a schedule, it lands right
here in the cron where you can see, you
know, anything. You can pause it, test
it, or click in, and you can edit any
one of these. We can create on a new
one. We currently have a weekly X
profile growth review. Now, funny thing
is is I set up this months ago where I
would set up my Hermes agent through the
terminal, and it's now recognizing that
I already have everything set up. So,
it's just taking all of that. So, if you
do have a previous terminal set up with
everything, there's not really much you
have to do as long as you go through the
uh entire setup that I just showed you
guys. But anyways, if we back out of
that, move all the way to the bottom
right, we can see the model that we are
currently running. This makes things so
much easier because previously I would
have to go back in the terminal, see all
of the different models that I had by,
you know, opening up my config, opening
up the settings, and it's just I didn't
memorize all the different commands and
things that I had to paste in. I would
always have to speak with another AI
system, another AI model, try to figure
it out. But everything here, it's now
concise, and I can literally just go
back and forth because I already have my
open router set up, and I have my OpenAI
uh ChatGPT subscription plugged in here
as well. So, I can just easily navigate
back and forth through each one.
Extremely simple, so much better now.
Outside of that, we have our settings,
and the settings in here, it's
effectively just going to be like the
control room for the entire thing. So,
I'm not going to walk through every
single tab, but there are a few that are
worth knowing. So, this is just where,
of course, you manage your model and
your providers. So, the account or the
key that's actually going to be powering
it, you plug it in here. Next up is
going to be the appearance. So, this is
just going to be your themes, and
there's a memory and the context tab,
which is the one that I would actually
be be pointing you to. So, this section
right here. If it ever feels like your
agent is forgetting some things, this is
where you tune how it remembers. So, you
can just tweak these and nudge these a
little bit, and it's going to hold onto
stuff way better for you depending on
what you change specifically. And one of
the last things down in this about
section right here, this is just where
you can see whatever version that you
are on, and the nice part is it checks
for updates on its own, and it tells you
when there's a new one, so you're never
going to be stuck on something old.
Okay. Like I mentioned, we're going to
be using Telegram. We can see instead of
the messaging, we are already connected.
How you can actually set this up for
yourself, of course, you can just open
up the setup guide, but you're going to
grab your bot token from Telegram,
simply just open up Telegram, create a
new contact, and search for Bot Father,
and it's going to present you with a
code once you enter in the name that you
want to name your bot. Simple as that.
So, once you get that set up, we are
going to get into the actual builds, and
I want to show you how to do something
with this. So, we're just going to
create a brand new session, and let's
get it just build me something little.
So, what I'm going to ask is, build me a
simple one-page countdown timer to a
date that I give you. Clean look, dark
background, big numbers. Save the file
when you are done. So, right now, you,
of course, just like any other AI model
like Claude or maybe like ChatGPT, it is
just going to be thinking it through,
picking its tools, or writing the thing,
and then running it. And this is the
part that I really like about the new
app, is you can finally see what it's
doing instead of just staring at a blank
chat, which was super annoying with just
using it inside of Telegram. So, from
now on, I'm only going to use Telegram
when I actually have to just use my
phone, and I'm not at my desk. Now,
anyways, it's asking what date should we
do the countdown. So, let's just do
um New Year's Eve. Beyond that, if we
click on any one of these little tabs,
we can expand on any one of these, and
we can see what's actually going on
inside of that beyond what I was just
talking about. And just like that, we
now have our output. We can just click
on the previews inside of here. Super
easy to navigate. There's our HTML. And
[snorts] it looks like, okay, no,
there's both two outputs, but we just
got one. So, it's exactly what we are
looking for. Beyond that, if we go
inside of our artifact section, we
should be able to see it inside of here.
So, if I just filter, I don't know why
all of these ones are coming up
specifically because none of these are
mine. It looks like it's some sort of
community. But, if we just scroll down
here, we can see our HTML right here,
and all of our other previous ones.
Beautiful. Now, what I want to build is
something that runs every single morning
on its own. And this is where it stops
being a simple chat tool, and it turns
into something that's actually going to
be working for you while you are asleep.
And the wild part is, you can just set
it up by just asking. So, I'm going to
say, "Is every weekday at 7:00 a.m.,
grab the top three AI news stories from
the last 24 hours, and send me a short
summary of each one." So, Hermes, what
it's going to do from right here, it's
going to think, run its cron tool, and
reply with just a results card laying
out the schedule, the next run, and that
is just going to be repeating forever.
So, just like that in just 28
milliseconds, done, it's scheduled.
Here's the job, here's the schedule, the
next run, the delivery, and even a job
ID. So, with that, I built a scheduled
job. We can open up our skills and
tools. Just like that, if we open up our
Chrome, going down to the bottom left,
we should see it pop up here right now.
And we can also open this up. We can
trigger it now, edit it, the frequency,
who to deliver this to, whether you want
to deliver to Telegram, Discord, Slack,
email, and when we want this to be
running down at the bottom. The one
thing that I do have to be honest about
this is this runs on your computer. So,
that job only fires when your computer
is on. So, if you do shut your laptop,
it is going to sleep, and the agent
sleeps right with it. So, if you want
this every morning, no matter what, you
have to put it on a machine that stays
on. For example, I have another Mac Mini
in my other room, which is just always
on every single day, in which case it's
running Hermes for me. Or, if you just
want to run this on a VPS, you can use
something like Hostinger, or you can use
Hetzner. There's a lot of different
options, in which case you can put
Hermes on a VPS, but there's pros and
cons to each one of those. But, we have
covered that in previous videos. Now,
another great thing about this is the
cross-functionality. So, if I'm in
Telegram, maybe I'm on my phone, I can
just type out, "I need you to say hello
back to me."
So, if we type this out, we're going to
get our hello back. And if we just go
back into our Hermes application, we
should see that's um that session in
just a second, if we actually refresh it
here. So, we have the simple greeting.
Perfect. Now, everything is just
translated back in here. So, we now have
a cross-functionality. So, that's
everything that I wanted to cover, and I
want to be straight with you about where
this is still a little rough, because it
is brand new. So, it's an early public
preview, so pretty much all of this is
moving fast, and things will change. And
the two catches that I already mentioned
still stand. But, the free credit is
just a trial, and your scheduled jobs
only run while your computer is on. And
if you want something for heavy, serious
coding all day, this isn't just trying
to be that. Here's the point instead.
Hermes has been one of the most capable
agents out there for a while now, and
the only thing holding it back was that
you basically had to be a terminal
person just to switch it on. And that
wall is now completely gone. You just
download an app, click through it, and
you're running it. And that's a
genuinely big deal, and is exactly why I
wanted to get this in front of you. So,
if you go set this up, drop a comment,
tell me which one you built first, and
the little application or the morning
brief. If you guys are going to be using
this, setting this up for yourself,
having it be kind of like your main
harness, let me know down in the
comments. I'm very curious. Also, make
sure to check out our free school
community. We have so many in-depth
guides, so many opportunities, and we
hope you grow and start your AI
business. There's 19,000 other people
inside of there. You can meet people for
partnerships, you can find hiring
opportunities. There's so much good
stuff and so much more to come. Monthly
competition. So, if you guys are
interested, make sure to check out the
link down below in the description. And
of course, if you're looking to grow
your business in 2026, then book in a
call with our team at Reprise. We'll
show you how we can drive leverage and
increase your bottom line inside of your
business. So, make sure to check that
out, book in a call with our team, and
I'll see you in the next video.